# clifter slam

clifter_slam is an open-source library aimed at providing implementation of SLAM subsystem for deeplearning (DL) practioners. While several DL practitioners want to use SLAM from the comfort of theri favorite DL library (TensorFlow / Pytorch), there are currentyl no freely available implementations.We aim to fill in that gap with this library

Another underlying motivation is to release code for the clifter_slam paper, where we demonstrate end-to-end differentiable dense SLAM systems. People should be able to load up their favorite datasets and run differentiable / no-differentiable dense SLAM system on them

## SLAM
simlatneous localization and mapping (SLAM) has for decades been a central problem in robot preception and state estimation. A large portion of the SLAM literature has focused either dircetly or indirectly on the question of map representation. This fundamental choice dramatically impacts the choice of processing blocks in the SLAM pipeline, as well as all other downstream task that depend on the output of the SLAM system. of late, gradient based learnaing approacehs have tansformed the outlook of several domains (e.g image recognition, language modelling, speech recognition) however, such techniqueshave had limited success in the context of SLAM, primarily since many of the elements in the standard SLAM system would enable task-driven representation learrning since the error signals indicatig task performance could be back-prpagated all the way through the SLAM system, to the raw sensor observations.

this is particualarly __true__ for __dense__ 3D __maps__ generated from RGB-D cameras, where there has been a lack of consensus on the right representation (pointclouds, meshes, surfels, etc). several methods gave demonstrated a capability for producing dense 3D maps from sequences of RGB or RGB-D frames, however, none of these method are able to solve the __inverse mapping problem__.